all right so you've signed up for the
humorist or the joke master role at your
local toastmasters club
and perhaps it's the night before your
meeting and you're thinking
oh boy i'm not funny i don't know how to
make people laugh
why did i sign up for this role i need
some ideas i'm searching youtube and
trying to figure this out
take a breath relax you've come to the
right place
my name is wade patterson and i'm
passionate about impactful communication
and i'm passionate about helping people
through their toastmasters
journey so if that is you if you are
somebody who
has started attending meetings maybe
you've been a club member for a long
time
make sure you subscribe to this video
because i'll be putting out more content
specifically about toastmasters
and various toastmasters roles and how
you can crush it
no matter what you sign up for first off
what is the humorist or the joke master
role
and depending on your club they call it
different things there's different names
for this but essentially the goal is you
want to speak for one to two minutes
about something that gets your audience
to laugh
now humor is one of the most powerful
devices we have as speakers and i'm
going to talk about that a little bit
later in the video
why humor is such an incredible
tool but what i found for the humorist
or the joke master rule
in general is that personal stories
often more times than not
result in laughter than canned material
or jokes or google searches where you
get
funniest jokes of the day or whatever
you're doing to find
previously made jokes jokes that are
done by somebody else
those can work i have seen them work but
it's much more rare
usually those are kind of that awkward
laughter and it doesn't
you know the toastmasters is an
encouraging spot
in general so the fact you're doing the
role i think your club is going to be
very supportive
but if you really want to get that
genuine laughter
i would lean toward a funny personal
story
we all have funny personal stories there
are things in life
that have happened to us that are
humorous things it's one of the great
joys of life that funny things happen
and then these are stories that we can
share with our friends at a coffee shop
or a pub or
at a family reunion or whatever it is so
that's a first place to start thinking
is what are some stories you like to
tell friends what is your favorite thing
to get somebody laughing what is the
story that you like to tell them
diving deeper into the personal story
idea
is self-deprecating humor now your story
doesn't have to be self-deprecating
humor which essentially means you're
kind of poking fun of yourself
you are the one who comes across looking
a little bit silly in the story
but if your story happens to fall into
that category
that is an even more powerful
tool for you to use as a speaker because
there's something about self-deprecating
humor that the audience
connects with they feel for you they
feel your pain they
see themselves in your shoes but at the
same time
they're gonna cringe for you as you go
through the story and it's going to
really
spur that laughter on so once you have a
story one of your biggest challenges
because most stories are more than one
to two minutes
is how you're going to pare that down to
a one to two
minute speech and the important thing
here is to practice
time yourself doing this because
humorist is one of those roles or joke
master whatever your club calls it
it's one of those roles where people
tend to go over time because they don't
realize that
especially if you're getting some
laughter from the audience that prolongs
the story a little bit and if you
haven't really practiced and made sure
that that is something you can tell
within two minutes and get people
laughing very quickly
you're going to be running out of time
the timer is going to be showing you the
red light
if you have a little bell that the timer
uses to speed up the speaker they'll be
dinging that bell therefore you really
want to practice
you can do this a couple ways you can
practice in front of a friend or a loved
one
you can just record yourself on your
phone and record it that way in practice
or you can set a timer on your phone
do it in front of the mirror any one of
these ways is a great way to not only be
prepared for your role
but to know that it's going to be the
right amount of time now earlier i
mentioned
that humor is one of the great tools
that any speaker can leverage to really
win over an
audience the thing about humor is that
it is
best done early in the speech for joke
master or humorist
that means it has to be done in the
first few seconds you have to almost
have an
introduction sentence that gets your
audience prepared to laugh
or laughing but in a longer speech
again it is important to do it fairly
early
in the first 30 seconds perhaps getting
a little bit of humor
getting some laughter from the audience
why is this so
important humor does two things
first off it boosts your own confidence
so many of us when we get in front of a
crowd even though i've been in
toastmasters for years i still get
those nerves and i'm a little bit
anxious of
is this going to be well received how is
the audience going to take this
and if i can make the audience laugh
early
instantly it calms those nerves it makes
me more comfortable on stage or standing
in front of them
and the second thing it does is it
relaxes the audience because one of the
first things
audiences ask is is this going to be
funny
they see someone think about the last
time you were at a wedding you see
somebody get up and take the mic
and you wonder is this person is this
gonna be a good speech
is it gonna be funny am i going to laugh
and
if that speaker can make you laugh in
the first 30 seconds
boom you're sold now you're paying
attention they've made a connection with
you already
you're paying attention and you're going
to enjoy the rest of what they have to
say
my final tip for taking on the humorist
or the joke master role
is to not get rattled if that laughter
doesn't
come sometimes in our heads we predict
or we think we know when the audience
will laugh or
what's a reasonable time in the speech
or the humorist rule
that would typically create laughter but
sometimes that doesn't happen
i've been surprised many times sometimes
i'll say something that i think is
hilarious
and it'll be crickets nothing and
on the other hand sometimes i'll say
something that i don't actually think is
that funny and
the rumor erupts and it's confusing
sometimes
but when the first example happens when
you say something maybe it's a punch
line or you're expecting
especially if it's early in the speech
and you don't get the same amount of
laughter you were hoping for
don't let that get you rattled because
that can be one of the most
rattling things and this is why
toastmasters is great because we get
that experience
practicing practicing trying to be funny
practicing
various speeches in various sort of
scenarios therefore if you run into this
issue where you say something early
and maybe it doesn't connect keep your
head up keep your confidence
if you're really advanced or if you
really want to take it to the next level
you could throw in something like huh
there was more laughter when i practiced
that in my car driving over here this
morning but that's cool that's cool
and you know something like that a
sarcastic remark and
that may actually start to get the
laughter going i have nothing but
respect for anyone who is brave enough
to take on the humorist or the joke
master role it is not an easy role to
take on
especially for those people who maybe
don't consider themselves to be funny
but this is a skill worth developing
therefore i really encourage you
to to sign up and if you've already
signed up don't worry you've got this
you're going to crush it
i hope that this video brought you a
little bit of value that it helps you
take on the humorist role
like i said at the beginning of the
video please subscribe to my channel it
would mean so much
i'm really focused on putting out great
content about the toastmasters program
but also beyond that other subjects
that have to do with being an impactful
communicator and i think you'll get a
lot of value out of subscribing to my
channel